What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

It creates a .git folder, but does not commit any files.
I need to do it as a first step, to set it up. But it will not
start "working" until I decide what files to add.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? 
What value do you think it offers?

Staging area shows you what you intend to add/update in the repository, but
changes have not yet been made there. The working directory shows all files
in the directory, whether or not they are part of the git repo.


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

Making changes in your working directory, I can work on any piece that I like,
without having to worry if it belongs to the same logical part. I can then
only move the files with logically tied changes to the staging area before
committing, so I'm only committing one logical piece at a time.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history 
organized? How would branches help? 

Working on a new feature, code refactoring, creating multiple versions (like
different languages or something like that). Master should be stable, and
a branch should be where I'm doing work. Changes shouldn't be merged until they
work.


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

They clearly show the different chains of commits beloning to each branch,
where the branches diverged, and any unreachable bits.


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent 
it in the diagram the way we do?

Making one version with all the features of both (if possible). We represent it
the way that we do to show that they were developed separately, to make clear what
the parent of each commit is, to show when they diverged and when they came
back together.


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Automatic merging pros: saves time, can make for cleaner code (if doing manually, would
be tempting to include other changes at the time). It also only does the least amount
that it is absolutely sure about, so incorrect or improper merging is highly
unlikely. Cons: less knowledge abouu what changes are being made. If I am merging in 
code from another source, not having to go through it manually means I'm less aware
of what all the changes are.


